If you are generating AI video, you know
that getting the motion right is the
hardest part. You type camera moves
forward, but do you get a dolly, a zoom,
or a hyperlapse? To get control over
your generations, you need the right
vocabulary. Today, I'm testing and
visualizing 42 specific camera movement
prompts. We are going to look at
everything from zi to barrel rolls so
you can see exactly how the AI
interprets these commands. I've
organized these by category to help you
build your prompt library.
Dolly moves.
Slow dolly in
[sighs]
slow dolly out.
>> [music]
>> Fast dolly in
[panting]
vertigo effect.
Infinite scale continuity.
Extreme macro zoom.
Cosmic hyper zoom
character-mounted framing
over the shoulder.
>> I still can't believe you said that to
him.
>> It had to be done. Besides, look how
well it turned out.
Fisheye or peeppole lens.
>> Hello, I have your delivery.
Obstacle and environmental interaction.
Reveal from behind. White movement.
Through shot fly through aperture,
focus and lens manipulation.
Reveal from blur. Fade in.
>> [music]
>> Rack focus foreground to background.
Tripod moves. Tilt up.
Tilt down.
Slider moves. Camera truck left.
Lateral truck right
orbital movements.
Orbit 180
fast 360 orbit.
Slow cinematic arc.
Vertical movements. Crane or pedestal.
Pedestal down.
Pedestal up.
>> [sighs]
>> Crane up. High angle reveal.
[cheering]
Crane down. Landing.
Optical lens effects. Smooth optical
zoom in.
Smooth optical zoom out.
Snap zoom.
Drone aerial views.
Drone fly over.
Epic drone reveal.
Largecale drone orbit.
Top down God's eye view.
FPV drone aggressive drone dive.
Stylized and dynamic movements.
Handheld documentary style.
Whip pan.
>> We have to accelerate the timeline on
this project.
>> Dutch angle.
>> Clear the hallway.
Emergency.
>> [snorts]
>> Subject tracking.
Leading shot. Backward tracking.
[music]
Following shot. Forward tracking.
Side tracking. Parallel.
POV walk. First person walk.
Time and speed manipulation.
Hyperlapse. Moving time lapse.
Bullet time. Frozen moment.
Extreme orientation and perspective.
Barrel roll. Vortex inception shot.
Worm's eyee tracking. Ground level.
Hopefully this helps you take better
control of your AI video output. If you
found this list useful, save it for
reference and let me know in the
comments which movement you use the
most. See you in the next one.